Extract the knwoledge from data. You need to look raw data and find useful information. Use data to provide solutions
We learn something from the data, normally the past to make some predictions about the future.
Predictions about the user behaviour to improve business outcomes
There are theories, tecniques from mathemathics, statistics and also related to information of tecnology.
Data scientist, somebody that practice data science, with some skills in business domain, analytics, data engineering.

Entity, something that exists in which we made some research and try to find prediction, also has a business context.
        like customers, patients, we could have different business context according the entity they represent.
        Could be none living things like cars, traffic, weather

Characteristic, information about the entities, that belongs to them, like the properties they have and can be managed based 
        on a business context. like name, age, income, gender.

Environment, is where entity exists, is the ecosystem under investigation, multiples entity can reside here
        same entities can behave different in different environments, or under the same environment but with different
        environment conditions can do different. city, country, climate, mode

Event, activities in which entities participate, some business activity that happends in the environment, happens under certain 
        circunstances , like browsing, buying, selling, test, smoke test
        
Behaviour, in case of the event, what happens with the entity, also could be affected by environment and affected under other 
        circunstance
        
DATA

Outcome, result of the activities or based on result of event, that have importance for business, the outcome are values in response
        of activities done, could be boolean, class, continous.
        
Observation, a measurement about an event, we take the measure important for the business as they find useful to the business 
        purpose, collect the information, recording the information.
        
DataSet, is a collection of observations, normally we call a record each of them, we could record in multiple forms.
        Logical record, each record you will se the attributes that contains the charactersitics, behaviour or outcomes
        We could have strcutured, unustructured or semi-structuree, we use these datasets to perform predictions about entities
        Strcutured Data... Label and distinctible labeled, easy query and search
        Unustrcutured Data.. Not labele, as continuos test, attributes are present but not labelel
        
      
